Title: Basic Whole Wheat Crepes (traditional)
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 12
Active: 8
Total: 8
Ingredients:
	3 eggs
	2/3 cup milk
	2 tablespoons unsalted butter or 2 tablespoons margarine
	1/4 teaspoon salt
	1/3 cup whole wheat flour

Instructions:
	2 In a small bowl, beat the eggs, milk, butter, and salt until well combined-about 20 seconds.
	3 Sift the flour into a medium size bowl or a 2 quart measuring cup, then add the liquid mixture, beating until well combined-about 1 minute.
	4 Or blend the eggs, milk, butter, and salt in an electric blender or food processor for 15 seconds; sprinkle in the flour and blend until smooth-about 30 seconds.
	5 Cover loosely with plastic wrap; let stand for at least 1 hour refrigerated or at room temperature. (The flour will swell to make a softer batter.) Will keep, refrigerated, for up to 4 hours.
	6 Brush butter on the bottom of a crepe pan or heavy 7-inch skillet.
	7 Set over moderate heat for about 30 seconds or until a drop of batter sizzles.
	8 Stir the batter well, pour 2 tablespoonfuls into the skillet, and quickly tip it back and forth so that the batter evenly coats the bottom.
	9 Cook until the crepe edges are golden brown-about 1 minute.
	10 Slide a spatula under the crepe, flip it over, and cook for about 30 seconds.
	11 Transfer to a warm plate.
	12 Repeat with the remaining batter, rebuttering the skillet when necessary.
	13 *At this point the crepes can be cooled to room temperature, separated by sheets of wax paper, and stored.
	14 Refrigerate, wrapped tightly with plastic wrap, for up to 24 hours.
	15 Freeze, wrapped with aluminum foil and labeled, for up to 1 month at 0°F.

Notes: Note: If you want to make regular crepes, not using whole wheat flour, use 3/4 cup milk, 2 tbs cold water, and substitute 3/4 cup white flour.

SIMPLE METHOD:
Heat 2 Tbsp Oil in pan
Mix Dry Ingredients
Mix Wet Ingredients
Add Half Wet to Dry, Then slowly combine rest while mixing
Add Butter
Wipe out skillet with paper towel
Pour batter into pan, 1/4 cup at a time, dripping it around the pan so it coats evenly



