Title: Cauliflower Pizza Crust
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: pizza, cauliflower
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/b02ec6537ae44260a767dc1d41c46fb6.jpg
Ingredients:
	2 pounds cauliflower florets, riced
	1 egg, beaten
	1/3 cup soft goat cheese (chevre)
	1 teaspoon dried oregano
	pinch of salt

Instructions:
	Preheat your oven to 400F, then get to work on your crust.
	Begin by making your cauliflower “rice.” Simply pulse batches of raw cauliflower florets in a food processor, until a rice-like texture is achieved.
	Step 2: Cook & Strain the rice. Fill a large pot with about an inch of water, and bring it to a boil. Add the “rice” and cover; let it cook for about 4-5 minutes. Drain into a fine-mesh strainer.
	Once you’ve strained the rice, transfer it to a clean, thin dishtowel.Wrap up the steamed rice in the dishtowel, twist it up, then SQUEEEEEEEZE all the excess moisture out! (Be careful not to burn your hands!)
	Step 3: Make & Shape the dough. In a large bowl, mix up your strained rice, beaten egg, goat cheese, and spices.
	Press the dough out onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. (It’s important that it’s lined with parchment paper, which is not to be confused with WAX paper– they’re very different!)Keep the dough about 1/3″ thick, and make the edges a little higher for a “crust” effect, if you like.
	Step 4: Bake! Bake for 35-40 minutes at 400F. The crust should be firm, and golden brown when finished.
	Step 5: Load on the Toppings! Now’s the time to add all your favorites– sauce, cheese, and any other toppings you like. Return the pizza to the 400F oven, and bake an additional 5-10 minutes, just until the cheese is hot and bubbly.
	Then slice and serve immediately!

Notes: Time-Saving Tip: I recommend making a double-batch of cauliflower pizza crusts–> make one for now, and save one for later. After baking the crusts and adding the toppings, wrap up the whole pizza in foil, and FREEZE it for a quick “frozen pizza” to enjoy another night! Simply thaw and bake at 400F, as directed below, until the cheese is hot and bubbly.

