Title: Easy Apfel Strudel
Description: For a strudel recipe with a crisp, flaky crust that would hold its shape, we handled the phyllo dough carefully, sprinkling butter and sugar between its layers for a cohesive crust. We found that browning the bread crumbs in butter for our strudel recipe prevented an overtly bready flavor. Baking the strudel in a very hot oven for just 15 minutes crisped the phyllo but didn’t dry it out.
Source: cooksillustrated.com
Original URL: 
Yield: 6-8
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: dessert, apple
Ingredients:
[CRUST]
	5 sheets phyllo , defrosted (see note)
	1 1/2 teaspoons confectioners' sugar

[FILLING]
	1/2 cup golden raisins
	2 tablespoons Calvados or apple cider
	6 tablespoons unsalted butter (3/4 stick)
	1/4 cup fresh bread crumbs , plain
	10 ounces Golden Delicious apples (about 2 small), peeled, cored, and cut lengthwise into 1/8-inch-thick slices
	10 ounces McIntosh apples (about 2 medium), peeled, cored, and cut lengthwise into 1/8-inch-thick slices
	1/4 cup granulated sugar , plus 2 tablespoons
	1/3 cup chopped walnuts , toasted (optional)
	1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
	1/8 teaspoon table salt
	1 teaspoon lemon juice

Instructions:
	Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position; heat oven to 475 degrees. Combine raisins and Calvados in small microwave-safe bowl; cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high until simmering, about 1 minute. Let stand, covered, until needed.
	Melt 1 tablespoon butter in small skillet over medium heat; when foaming subsides, add bread crumbs and cook, stirring frequently, until golden brown, about 2 minutes. Transfer bread crumbs to small bowl and set aside.
	Drain off and discard any remaining liquid from raisins. Toss apples, raisins, bread crumbs, 1/4 cup granulated sugar, walnuts (if using), cinnamon, salt, and lemon juice in large bowl to combine.
	Melt remaining 5 tablespoons of butter. Place sheet of parchment paper slightly larger than phyllo on work surface, long side toward you. Place phyllo sheet on parchment. Following illustrations 1 through 6 below, fill and roll strudel. Bake until golden brown, 15 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on wire rack until warm, about 40 minutes.
	Place confectioners' sugar in metal strainer and dust strudel. Using 2 large metal spatulas, transfer strudel to platter or cutting board, cut into slices with serrated knife, and serve with Lightly Sweetened Crème Fraiche or whipped cream, if desired.

[ASSEMBLING STRUDEL]
	1. Brush 1 phyllo sheet with butter and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar. Repeat with remaining sheets.
	2. Place filling in 3-inch-wide strip about 2 1/2 inches from bottom and 2 inches from sides of phyllo.
	3. Fold short ends of phyllo over filling. Fold end closest to you over filling.
	4. Roll loosely, using parchment as guide. Don't roll too tight, as this can cause tearing during baking.
	5. Place strudel, seam-side down, on baking sheet. Brush with butter and sprinkle with remaining sugar.
	6. Cut four 1-inch vents into top of strudel for steam to escape.

Notes: Note that Athens phyllo, the most commonly available brand (as well as our preferred brand), is sold in two sizes. Both are 1-pound packages, with the larger size containing 20 sheets measuring 18 by 14 inches and the smaller size containing 40 sheets measuring 14 by 9 inches—exactly half the size of the larger sheets. We prefer the larger sheets in our strudel, but if all you can find are the smaller sheets, divide the filling evenly and make two smaller strudels. The best ways to defrost the phyllo are in the refrigerator overnight or at room temperature for three to four hours; it doesn't defrost well in the microwave. Make sure that the phyllo sheets you use for the strudel are not badly torn. If they have small cuts or tears in the same location (sometimes an entire package sustains cuts in the same spot), when forming the strudel, flip alternating layers so that the cuts will not line up, thereby creating a weak spot that can cause the strudel to burst during baking. Serve the strudel warm with lightly sweetened crème fraíche or whipped cream; if you chose to make the crème fraíche, make it before starting the strudel because it must stand at room temperature for about 1 1/2 hours before serving.
