Title: Easy Pear Strudel
Description: For a strudel recipe with a crisp, flaky crust that would hold its shape, we handled the phyllo dough carefully, sprinkling butter and sugar between its layers for a cohesive crust. We found that browning the bread crumbs in butter for our strudel recipe prevented an overtly bready flavor. Baking the strudel in a very hot oven for just 15 minutes crisped the phyllo but didn’t dry it out. 
Source: cooksillustrated.com
Original URL: 
Yield: 6-8
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
[DOUGH]
	10 sheets phyllo (9 by 14-inch each), defrosted
	1 1/2 teaspoons confectioners' sugar

[FILLING]
	1/2 cup golden raisins
	2 tablespoons pear eau-de-vie (such as Poire William) or brandy
	7 tablespoons unsalted butter
	1/4 cup fresh bread crumbs , plain
	4 pounds Bosc pears (about 4 medium)
	1/4 cup granulated sugar , plus 2 tablespoons
	1/3 cup chopped walnuts , toasted (optional)
	1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
	1/8 teaspoon table salt
	2 teaspoons lemon juice

Instructions:
	Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position; heat oven to 475 degrees. Combine raisins and Poire William in small microwave-safe bowl; cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on high until simmering, about 1 minute. Let stand, covered, until needed.
	Melt 1 tablespoon butter in small skillet over medium heat; when foaming subsides, add bread crumbs and cook, stirring frequently, until golden brown, about 2 minutes. Transfer bread crumbs to small bowl and set aside.
	Peel, quarter, and core pears; cut each quarter lengthwise into 1/8-inch thick slices. Drain off and discard any remaining liquid from raisins. Toss pears, raisins, bread crumbs, 1/4 cup granulated sugar, walnuts (if using), cinnamon, salt, and lemon juice in large bowl to combine. Divide filling into two equal portions.
	Melt remaining 6 tablespoons of butter. Place sheet of parchment paper slightly larger than phyllo on work surface, long side toward you. Place one phyllo sheet on parchment and brush with butter then sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar. Repeat with four more sheets. Place filling in 3-inch wide strip about 1 1/2 inches from bottom and 2 inches from sides of phyllo. Fold short ends of phyllo over pears. Fold end closest to you over pears. Roll loosely, using parchment as guide. Don’t roll too tight, as this can cause tearing during baking. Place strudel, seam side down, on baking sheet. Brush with butter and sprinkle with remaining sugar. Repeat with remaining five sheets of phyllo and filling to make second strudel. Cut three 1-inch vents into top of each strudel for steam to escape. Bake until golden brown, 15 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on wire rack until warm, about 40 minutes.
	Place confectioners' sugar in metal strainer and dust strudels. Using 2 large metal spatulas, transfer strudels to platter or cutting board, cut into slices with serrated knife, and serve with topping, if desired.

[ASSEMBLING STRUDEL]
	Brush 1 phyllo sheet with butter and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar. Repeat with remaining sheets.
	Place filling in 3-inch-wide strip about 2 1/2 inches from bottom and 2 inches from sides of phyllo.
	Fold short ends of phyllo over filling. Fold end closest to you over filling.
	Roll loosely, using parchment as guide. Don't roll too tight, as this can cause tearing during baking.
	Place strudel, seam-side down, on baking sheet. Brush with butter and sprinkle with remaining sugar.
	Cut four 1-inch vents into top of strudel for steam to escape.

Notes: The best ways to defrost the phyllo are in the refrigerator overnight or at room temperature for three to four hours; it doesn't defrost well in the microwave. Make sure that the phyllo sheets you use for the strudel are not badly torn. If they have small cuts or tears in the same location (sometimes an entire package sustains cuts in the same spot), when forming the strudel, flip alternating layers so that the cuts will not line up to create a weak spot that can cause the strudel to burst during baking. Serve the strudel warm with lightly sweetened crème fraíche or whipped cream. Poire William is a pear-flavored eau de vie.
