Title: Fruit Liquer
Description: This gorgeous sparkling red liqueur looks spectacular in a clear bottle; perfect for a host or hostess gift. Make this at least three to four months ahead. Use a recycled wine bottle, or purchase a decorative one. New corks and paraffin can be found at the hardware store. 
Source: Dede Wilson
Original URL: 
Yield: 3 cups
Active: 15 Minutes
Total: 25 Minutes
Categories: cranberry, liquer, liquor
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/c00483f109e242b5a0f8ed539b60cf3c.jpg
Ingredients:
[optional Decorative Packaging]
	4 ounce block paraffin
	1 crayon, your choice of color, paper removed
	8 ounce empty tin can

[Cranberry Liquer]
	1 lb. (450 g) sour cherries
	3 cups (710 ml) vodka (or 1 1/2 cup pure grain alcohol + 1 1/2 cup water).
	1 cup (225 g) sugar

Instructions:
[Cranberry Liquer]
	Wash and check the cherries and remove stems. Place them in a jar, add vodka, cap with tight lid and mix. Stir daily during the first days, later at least once a week for 3-4 weeks.
	Add sugar, and stir until most of it has dissolved. Stir again at least once a week for 3-4 weeks. Filter the mixture of berries and alcohol and transfer the liquid to a bottle. After three months strain the liqueur thru a cloth. Add some more sugar if necessary. The liqueur should mellow for at least 4 months before drinking, preferably for 8 months.
	The color of the cherry liqueur is ruby-red and the flavor is delicious. This recipe can also be used with sweet cherries, but the flavor will then be slightly different.
	If you wish to make a liqueur with a stronger hint of almond flavor you should pit 1/3 of the cherries, brake them with a hammer, and add the broken piths together with pitted cherries and whole cherries when making the liqueur.

[Decorative self-adhesive label]
	Place paraffin and crayon in tin can and place can in small saucepan with enough water to come one quarter up the sides of the can. Heat over medium heat until paraffin and crayon melt, stirring occasionally with a metal spoon. Turn off heat.
	Invert corked bottle and dip into wax to cover cork and down the bottle neck about 1-inch. Remove from wax and cool for a minute, then dip again. Repeat until the wax is opaque and you can no longer see the cork. Cool completely.
	Wipe bottle dry and affix label printed with name of contents.

