Title: Grilled Yogurt Marinated Leg of Lamb
Description: Yogurt is not only a fabulous condiment, but it also makes a terrific marinade, offering both flavor and a tenderizer for any cut of meat. Recipe by Laura Bashar of Family Spice
Source: Family Spice
Original URL: 
Yield: 10 Servings
Active: 8-24 hours
Total: 8-24 hours
Categories: persian
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/dea19302128d4a6ead209f2b7f700a4d.jpg
Ingredients:
	4 1/2 lb leg of lamb (boneless), butterflied
	1 1/2 cup yogurt, plain
	1/2 cup lemon juice
	1 onion, grated, with juice
	5 large garlic cloves, crushed
	2 tsp mint, dried, crushed
	2 tsp basil, dried, crushed
	1/2 tsp black pepper, ground

Instructions:
	Rinse and pat dry with paper towels:
	4 1/2 lb leg of lamb (boneless) , butterflied
	Open lamb up and cut into the larger chunks of meat so that it is of even thickness.
	Remove and discard the larger deposits of fat, reserving some fat on the meat which will add flavor during the grilling process.
	Place lamb in a large non-reactive pan.
	In a small bowl, whisk together:
	1 1/2 cup yogurt, plain
	1/2 cup lemon juice
	1 onion , grated, with juice
	5 large garlic cloves , crushed
	2 tsp mint, dried , crushed
	2 tsp basil, dried , crushed
	1/2 tsp black pepper, ground
	Pour marinade over the lamb, covering all parts of the lamb entirely. Massage the marinade into the meat.
	Cover and refrigerate for a minimum of 8 hours and up to 24 hours.
	About an hour prior to grilling, remove lamb the refrigerator and allow it to come to room temperature.
	Preheat grill to medium-high heat.
	Sear lamb on one side, about 7 minutes, then flip over to sear the other side.
	Reduce heat to medium and continue cooking the lamb until a thermometer inserted to the center of the meat reads 145ºF for medium-rare, 160ºF for medium and 170ºF for well-done.
	Allow meat to rest 5-10 mins prior to carving and serve.

Notes: Serving Suggestions: Serve with yogurt, fresh herbs, olives and flat bread. Dried oregano can used instead of or in addition to dried basil.

Cooking Tips: The cooking time will vary depending on how thick your meat is. You can also decrease the cooking time, by cutting the lamb into smaller chunks of equal size.
