Title: Homemade Giblet Stuffing For Turkey Or Chicken
Description: 
Source: Food.com
Original URL: http://www.food.com/recipe/homemade-giblet-stuffing-for-turkey-or-chicken-266831
Yield: 6-8 servings
Active: 
Total: 3 hrs 20 mins
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/c8ee4d05daad40f8ae3306891ca8bd89.jpg
Ingredients:
	turkey giblets (or chicken)
	1 loaf bread, day old (preferably homemade)
	2 tablespoons butter
	1 onion, minced
	1 cup celery, minced
	3 garlic cloves, crushed (or 1 tsp. garlic powder added with other dried herbs and spices below)
	1 tablespoon dried sage
	1 tablespoon dried parsley
	1 tablespoon dried herbs (mixed)
	1 teaspoon fresh ground pepper
	1 teaspoon salt
	1 teaspoon paprika
	1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
	2 eggs, beaten
	1/2 cup chicken broth (more or less depending on how moist you like your stuffing)

Instructions:
	Separate the neck from the rest of the giblets. Put remaining giblets into a covered container and put in the fridge for now.
	Put the neck ONLY from the giblets into a full pan of salted boiling water. Bring to a boil agian, cover, turn down to a simmer cook for 1 1/2 hours until the meat is fall off the bone tender, making sure to keep check on the water level throughout.
	Add the remaining giblets to the neck in the water and cook for a further 1/2 hour.
	Drain giblets; reserving liquid.
	Chop up the giblets into small pieces.
	Cover tightly and set aside (if using immediately) or refrigerate until ready to use in the recipe (can be done the day before).
	While the giblets are cooking the rest of instructions follow:.
	Preheat the oven to 350F degrees.
	Slice the bread into 1/2 inch cubes.
	Place the cubed bread onto a ungreased dry cookie sheet and toss with the dried herbs and spices.
	Bake seasoned bread cubes in the oven turning frequently (approximately every 5 minutes) until golden brown and crisp, about 20 minutes or so depending on how moist your bread cubes are.
	While the bread cubes are in the oven, saute the celery, onion and garlic in the butter until tender.
	Remove bread cubes from oven, leave to cool until crisp.
	Mix he celery, onion, garlic mixture into the cooled dried bread cubes. Mixing thoroughly.
	Add chopped giblets to the mix.
	Add the beaten eggs to the mixture, again mixing thoroughly.
	Mix reserved liquid from the giblets and combine with chicken broth to make 1 cup.
	Carefully add the chicken broth to your desired consistency. (Remember, if you are stuffing the bird it will take on more moisture so be careful how moist you want your stuffing at this stage).
	Stuff your bird, making sure not to pack it in to tightly and don't forget to pack a little in the neck cavity.
	Put the remainer of the stuffing into a generously buttered casserole dish and bake for 1/2 hour at 350°F (covered with foil for moist stuffing and uncovered if you want a crispy top).

