Title: Italian-American Meatballs
Description: 
Source: Food Network
Original URL: http://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchens/italian-american-meatballs-recipe3/index.html
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
	2 slices white sandwich bread, stale
	1/2 pound ground pork
	1/2 pound ground veal
	1/2 pound ground beef chuck
	1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan
	1/4 cup chopped flat-leaf parsley
	2 teaspoons kosher salt
	1/2 medium onion, grated (about 1/4 cup)
	2 cloves garlic, minced
	1 large egg, beaten
	Freshly ground black pepper
	1/3 cup olive oil, divided
	Quick Marinara Sauce, recipe follows
	Serving suggestions: 1 pound cooked spaghetti or linquini

Instructions:
	Grate the bread or pulse into crumbs in a food processor. In a small bowl toss the bread crumbs with 1/3 cup cold milk to re-hydrate.
	In a large bowl, combine the bread crumbs, pork, veal, beef, Parmesan, parsley, salt, onion, garlic, and egg and mix until combined. Season the meat mixture with pepper.
	Using your hands, gently form the meat mixture into 18 slightly larger than golf ball-sized balls. (Packing the meat mixture too tightly together will result in tough meatballs). Refrigerate for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours.
	Heat half the oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add half of the meatballs and cook, turning occasionally, until well browned on all sides, about 6 minutes. Transfer the meatballs to a plate. Drain the oil and wipe out the skillet, return to the heat, and repeat with the remaining oil and meatballs.
	Drain and wipe out the skillet again. Return all the meatballs to the skillet and pour in the marinara sauce. Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and simmer, covered, swirling the pan occasionally, until the meatballs are cooked through about 15 minutes. The cheese in the meatballs will start to melt when the meatballs are ready. Serve immediately with the Quick Marinara Sauce and spaghetti or on sandwiches. If serving with spaghetti, toss with 1/3 of the sauce.These meatballs can be stored, covered in the refrigerator for 3 days, or frozen for up to 6 weeks.
	Copyright (c) 2004 Television Food Network, G.P., All Rights Reserved.

