Title: Kosher Perfect Matzo Balls
Description: I tried this. Made the Matzo meal with a combination of cornmeal and breadcrumbs and white pepper. 
Source: Food.com
Original URL: http://www.food.com/recipe/kosher-perfect-matzo-balls-94412
Yield: 18-24 servings
Active: 
Total: 50 mins
Categories: passover, matzo, dumpling
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/5a5f36250e384b89a13fe0e9e79c3ca1.jpg
Ingredients:
[Optional Ingredients --- all some or none]
	1 teaspoon onion powder (optional)
	1 teaspoon garlic powder (optional)
	1 tablespoon dried parsley (optional)
	1 teaspoon dill weed (optional)
	1/2 teaspoon pepper (optional)

[For firm matzo balls the above plus]
	4 tablespoons water or 4 tablespoons broth
	baking powder (delete for firm matzo balls)

[For soft matzo balls]
	1 cup matzo meal
	4 large eggs
	1 teaspoon kosher salt
	4 tablespoons oil or 4 tablespoons melted schmaltz (fat)
	2 teaspoons baking powder

Instructions:
	Follow these instructions carefully.
	Measure and mix dry ingredients into a bowl.
	Individually break the eggs into a clear glass, discarding any with blood spots, and then pour into a second bowl.
	Add oil or schmaltz (and water or broth for firm matzo balls) to the eggs and stir gently with a fork until the yolks are broken and the oil just mixed.
	Pour egg mixture into the dry mixture and gently mix with the fork.
	DO NOT OVER MIX.
	Treat it like a muffin mixture; if you over mix they will be tough.
	Place in the fridge for 1 hour.
	Bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil on the stove.
	After matzo ball mix has set, gently remove teaspoon fulls of the batter and roll into 1-2" balls and drop into the water.
	When all the balls are in the water leave it to boil until all the balls float to the top, then lower the temperature to a rolling simmer for 40 minutes and your matzo balls will be ready.
	DO NOT STIR AT ANY TIME.
	The matzo balls may be removed from the water with a slotted spoon and served in soup, with a stew, as a side dish with gravy or placed on a cookie sheet and frozen covered for a later use.

