Title: Pain Perdu (New Orleans French Toast)
Description: This is not your typical French toast recipe. This is New Orleans-style French toast, made using thick slices of bread soaked in a custard batter, and after being browned lightly in a pan, they're baked golden brown. 

"Pain Perdu" means "lost bread," and this recipe was a scrumptious solution for what to do with those stale loaves of bread that were about to be "lost." This recipe is just one of the countless French-influenced dishes of New Orleans, and one of the most delicious. 
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 4 servings
Active: 15min
Total: 45 min
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/2232437.jpg
Ingredients:
	2 eggs
	1/2 cup milk
	1 tsp vanilla
	1/2 tsp cinnamon
	1/4 tsp allspice
	pinch of salt
	1 tsp sugar
	6 thick slices of day old French bread (staler bread is fine as long as you can slice it)
	3 tbsp butter
	1 tbsp vegetable oil
	powdered sugar (optional)

Instructions:
	In a large mixing bowl whisk together the eggs, milk, salt, sugar, vanilla, cinnamon, and allspice.
	Slice the bread into thick slices, at least 1-inch thick and add to the egg mixture. Slicing at a slight angle will make for a longer piece of bread.
	Toss the slices until all the mixture has been absorbed into the bread. Depending on how stale the bread is this may take from 5 to 10 minutes.
	Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
	In a large non-stick skillet, over medium heat, very lightly brown the slices in the butter and oil for about 2 minutes per side. Don't cook too dark as most of the browning will occur in the oven as the French toast bakes.
	Transfer to a baking sheet and bake at 400 degrees F. for 10 minutes.
	After 10 minutes remove, turn over and put back in the oven for another 5 minutes to brown the other side.
	After 10 minutes on one side and 5 on the other the custard should be cooked on the inside, and the French toast will be crisp on the outside. If it looks like it needs more time cook it longer, but be careful not to cooked very dark as the egg custard may become bitter.

Notes: This simple milk and egg custard is the secret to a great pain perdu recipe.

I used a beautiful whole-grain French loaf, but any French or Italian loaf should work nicely. The secret to this recipe is to completely saturate the bread. This is also why thick slices of stale bread is used as thinner fresh bread would fall apart.
