Title: Patagonian Steak Y Platanos
Description: a Francis Mallman recipe
Source: 
Original URL: https://www.theperennialplate.com/uncategorized/2014/03/steak-patagonian-potatoes-and-chimichurri-a-la-francis-mallman/
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: argentina, steak, potatoes
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/4104640e3e4f4d9f9192de0df6a85f1a.jpg
Ingredients:
[Patagonian Potatoes]
	1 large russet potato
	2 tablespoons clarified butter
	salt
	large cast iron pan

[Chimichurri]
	1 cup minced parsley
	1/2 cup minced oregano
	2 cloves of garlic
	1 teaspoon dried chili flake
	1/4 cup olive oil
	1/4 cup red wine vinegar
	salt and pepper

[Steak]
	Cast Iron pan
	Choice grass-fed beef steak (in this case we use a porterhouse, but really you could use any piece. The thicker the better, over an inch is recommended)
	cooking oil
	butter
	spring of thyme or oregano
	clove of garlic

Instructions:
	Start by making the potatoes. Peel the potato and slice into very thin circles using a mandolin, maybe half a centimeter. Heat the pan and add clarified butter. Then arrange the potatoes in a circular fashion. Press something heavy on top and let cook for 10-15 minutes on a medium flame (depending on your stove) - making sure not to turn it up too high and burn the potatoes. The slower this goes, the less char you will have and the more even crispiness. Also, the thinner the potatoes, the crispier they will be. after 10 minutes, take the weight off the top and season the potatoes. Continue cooking until they are translucent on top. Also, the potatoes will shrink a bit, so you can rearrange them to make sure there are no gaps in your design. Check for color, flip and season other side.
	For the chimichurri, just mince all the ingredients and combine them together. This will last for a week or so in the fridge and the flavors will come together more. Add more vinegar and oil if you want a less thick consistency.
	Now onto the Steak. This really depends on how thick it is, but the key points here are to make sure your meat is seasoned before hand, that it is dried off with a towel before cooking and that the pan is nice and hot – oh and that you let it rest… If you do that, you have won half the battle - and if you have a thermometer, you can’t lose. So, season the meat with lots of salt and let it sit out while you prepare the other components. Then dry the meat off and salt again while your cast iron pan is heating up. Add oil to the cast iron and sear that steak hard. Once it has got some serious color, flip it over, let it sear on the other side for about a minute. Then add the butter, garlic and oregano. Base the steak in the butter – depending on how thick your steak is, this could be a 30 second thing or an 8 minute process. For an inch thick piece of meat after the sear I would give it about a minute of basting. Let the meat rest for a good 10 minutes. Then heat the pan up and throw the steak back on for 10 seconds just to heat up the exterior again. Serve directly on the potatoes so the juices drip through. And, of course, top with the chimichurri salsa.

