Title: Perfect Butter Pie Crust (Pâte Brisée)
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 1hr 30 min
Ingredients:
[Crust]
	2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus extra for rolling
	1 cup (2 sticks or 8 ounces) unsalted butter, very-cold, cut into 1/2 inch cubes
	1 teaspoon salt
	1 teaspoon sugar
	6 to 8 Tbsp ice water

[Egg Wash]
	1 Tbsp heavy cream, half and half, or milk
	1 large egg yolk

Instructions:
[Crust]
	Combine flour, salt, and sugar in a food processor; pulse to mix. Add butter and pulse 6 to 8 times, until mixture resembles coarse meal, with pea size pieces of butter. Add ice water 1 Tbsp at a time, pulsing until mixture just begins to clump together. If you pinch some of the crumbly dough and it holds together, it's ready. If the dough doesn't hold together, add a little more water and pulse again.
	2 Remove dough from machine and place in a mound on a clean surface. Gently shape into 2 discs. Knead the dough just enough to form the discs, do not over-knead. You should be able to see little bits of butter in the dough. These small chunks of butter are what will allow the resulting crust to be flaky. Sprinkle a little flour around the discs. Wrap each disc in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 1 hour, and up to 2 days.
	3 Remove one crust disk from the refrigerator. Let sit at room temperature for 5-10 minutes in order to soften just enough to make rolling out a bit easier. Roll out with a rolling pin on a lightly floured surface to a 12-inch circle; about 1/8 of an inch thick. As you roll out the dough, check if the dough is sticking to the surface below. If necessary, add a few sprinkles of flour under the dough to keep the dough from sticking. Carefully place onto a 9-inch pie plate. Gently press the pie dough down so that it lines the bottom and sides of the pie plate. Use a pair of kitchen scissors to trim the dough to within 1/2 inch of the edge of the pie dish.
	4 Add filling to the pie.
	5 Roll out second disk of dough, as before. Gently place onto the top of the filling in the pie. Pinch top and bottom of dough rounds firmly together. Trim excess dough with kitchen shears, leaving a 3/4 inch overhang. Fold the edge of the top piece of dough over and under the edge of the bottom piece of dough, pressing together. Flute edges using thumb and forefinger or press with a fork. Score the top of the pie with four 2-inch long cuts, so that steam from the cooking pie can escape.

[Egg Wash]
	Beat egg yolk with cream and brush on the surface of the pie with a pastry brush.

Notes: One of the secrets to a flaky pie crust is to work with very cold butter. Cut the butter into cubes and freeze, at least 15 minutes, best over an hour or even overnight. The minute I even think I might want to make a pie, the first thing I do is cut some butter into cubes and put it in the freezer.

You could sub 1/2 cup flour for almond flour or ground blanched almonds for a nuttier crust.

A lovely coating for a pie can be achieved with a simple egg wash.
