Title: Perfect Hard-Boiled Eggs
Description: These are great. Make sure to adjust appropriately for gas, coil, or plate elements. The most important part to cooking them down to the middle is to let the boil reduce naturally.

I like adding hot paprika when eating.
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 
Active: 3 min
Total: 15 min
Ingredients:
	6 Eggs
	1 Tbsp Vinegar
	1/2 tsp Salt

Instructions:
[Boil]
	Put the eggs in a single layer in a saucepan, covered by at least an inch or two of cold water. Starting with cold water and gently bringing the eggs to a boil will help keep them from cracking. 
	Put the burner on high and bring the eggs to a boil. As soon as the water starts to boil, remove the pan from the heat for a few seconds. Reduce the heat to low, return the pan to the burner. Let simmer for one minute.

[Cool]
	After a minute, remove the pan from the heat, cover, and let sit for 12 minutes. The eggs should be done perfectly at 10 minutes, but sometimes, depending on the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the number of eggs compared to the amount of water, and how cooked you like them, it can take a few minutes more. The eggs can sit, covered, for up to 15-20 minutes without the eggs getting overcooked.

[Store]
	Either remove the eggs with a slotted spoon and place them into a bowl of ice water (this is if you have a lot of eggs) OR strain out the water from the pan, fill the pan with cold water, strain again, fill again, until the eggs cool down a bit. Once cooled, strain the water from the eggs. Store the eggs in a covered container (eggs can release odors) in the refrigerator. They should be eaten within 5 days.

Notes: If you want hard boiled eggs that are easy to peel, make sure they are several days old. If this is Easter time, and everyone is buying their eggs at the last minute, buy your eggs 5 days in advance of boiling. Hard boiling farm fresh eggs will invariably lead to eggs that are difficult to peel. If you have boiled a batch that are difficult to peel, try putting them in the refrigerator for a few days; they should be easier to peel then. If you need to hard cook fresh eggs, and want them easy to peel, steaming the eggs works well. Even fresh eggs steamed for 20 minutes will be easy to peel.

Adding a tablespoon of vinegar to the water will help keep the egg whites from running out of any eggs that happen to crack while cooking, but some people find that the vinegar affects the taste. I don't have a problem with it and I usually add a little vinegar. Adding a half teaspoon of salt is thought to help both with the preventing of cracking and making the eggs easier to peel. Put the burner on high and bring the eggs to a boil. 
