Title: Pibil-Style Pork
Description: 
Source: Epicurious
Original URL: http://www.epicurious.com/recipes/food/views/Pibil-Style-Pork-242126
Yield: Makes 10 to 12 servings
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: mexican, pork
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/1403333.jpg
Ingredients:
[Achiote Paste - Make in Advance]
	1/4 cup annato seeds
	1 tablespoon coriander seeds
	1 tablespoon oregano
	1 teaspoon cumin seeds
	1 teaspoon black peppercorns
	2 whole cloves
	1 teaspoon salt
	5 cloves of garlic, peeled
	1/2 cup bitter orange juice (Seville) or 1/3 cup white vinegar

	1 medium onion, quartered through core
	4 garlic cloves, peeled
	1/3 cup fresh orange juice
	1/3 cup fresh lime juice
	1/4 cup achiote paste
	1 tablespoon red wine vinegar
	2 teaspoons coarse kosher salt
	1 teaspoon ground black pepper
	1 teaspoon ground cumin
	1/2 teaspoon dried oregano (preferably Mexican)
	1 4 1/2- to 5-pound bone-in pork shoulder roast (Boston butt)
	1 13x9x2-inch disposable aluminum pan
	Corn tortillas
	Yucatecan Pickled Onions
	Habanero-Tomato Salsa

Instructions:
	Heat medium skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and garlic to dry skillet and cook until browned in spots on all sides, turning occasionally, about 8 minutes for onion and 4 minutes for garlic. Core and coarsely chop onion. Transfer onion and garlic to blender. Add orange juice and next 7 ingredients to blender; puree until smooth. Transfer to large resealable plastic bag; add pork. Seal bag, releasing excess air; turn to coat. Chill at least 4 hours and up to 1 day, turning occasionally.
	For charcoal grill, light 30 briquettes in chimney starter; heat until ash-gray. Remove top rack from grill and place 1 disposable aluminum pan on 1 side of grill. Pour briquettes onto opposite side of grill. Return rack to grill.
	For 2-burner gas grill, remove rack and place 1 disposable aluminum pan on 1 side of grill. Return rack; light grill (medium heat) on side opposite pan.
	For 3-burner gas grill, remove rack and place 1 disposable aluminum pan in center of barbecue. Return rack and light grill on both sides of pan (not under pan).
	For all grills, brush rack with oil. Place pork with some marinade still clinging on rack above pan. Close lid; insert thermometer into hole in lid. Cook pork until instant-read thermometer inserted into center of roast registers 195°F, about 3 1/2 hours, maintaining grills internal temperature at around 350°F by opening and closing vents, adjusting gas grill's burners, or adding more hot briquettes from chimney starter to charcoal grill.
	Transfer pork to cutting board and let rest 10 minutes. Pull out and discard bone and any large lumps of fat. Using 2 forks or large knife, shred the pork; transfer to platter. Drizzle with a few spoonfuls of drippings from aluminum pan in barbecue, if desired.
	Grill tortillas until slightly charred, about 10 seconds per side. Serve pork with tortillas, Yucatecan Pickled Onions, and Habanero-Tomato Salsa.

[Achiote Paste]
	Grind the spices (annato, coriander, cumin, peppercorns, oregano and cloves) in a spice mill or with a mortar and pestle. Blend the ground spices with the salt, garlic and the bitter orange juice until it is smooth. Rub the mixture onto chicken, pork or fish and let it marinate for 4-6 hours then cook as usual. Or use the achiote as an ingredient in another dish.

