Title: Pittsburgh Pierogies (Various Fillings)
Description: Whether you spell it pierogi, piroghi or pierogie, authentic homemade pierogies are a delicious treat and a Pittsburgh tradition. Here in Pittsburgh we eat more than 11 times the pierogies of any other city in the nation, according to a recent survey, with pierogi fillings ranging from standard potato and cheese to sweet prune. A popular Pittsburgh business, Pierogies Plus, ships pierogies as far away as Alaska and Hawaii. The Pittsburgh Pirates even hold a pierogi race during the bottom of the 5th inning at every Pirates home game.
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 
Active: 45 minutes
Total: 1 hour
Categories: pirogi, polish
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/38bdc1a01bff430b900ffc10f64b111c.jpg
Ingredients:
[MEAT FILLING]
	1 pound leftover cooked meat (beef, veal, lamb or poultry)
	1 medium onion, chopped coarsely
	1 large beaten egg
	1 cup meat broth (cooking water)
	Salt and pepper

[MUSHROOM FILLING]
	3 cup finely chopped fresh mushrooms
	2 large finely chopped onion
	4 or more tablespoons butter
	4 or more tablespoons fine dry breadcrumbs
	Salt and pepper to taste

[DOUGH]
	2 cups flour, plus extra for kneading and rolling dough
	1/2 teaspoon salt
	1 large egg
	1/2 cup sour cream, plus extra to serve with the pierogi
	1/4 cup butter, softened and cut into small pieces
	butter and onions for sauteing
	ingredients for filling of your choice (potato & cheese filling recipe below)

Instructions:
[DOUGH]
	Roll the pierogi dough on a floured board or countertop until 1/8" thick. Cut circles of dough (2" for small pierogies and 3-3 1/2" for large pierogies) with a cookie cutter or drinking glass. Place a small ball of filling (about a tablespoon) on each dough round and fold the dough over, forming a semi-circle. Press the edges together with the tines of a fork.
	Boil the perogies a few at a time in a large pot of water. They are done when they float to the top (about 8-10 minutes). Rinse in cool water and let dry.
	Saute chopped onions in butter in a large pan until onions are soft. Then add pierogies and pan fry until lightly crispy. Serve with a side of sour cream for a true Pittsburgh pierogi meal.
	If you don't want to cook all of the pierogies right away, you can refrigerate them (uncooked) for several days or freeze them for up to several months.
	You can fill pierogies with pretty much anything you want, though potato and cheese is the most common (recipe below). Sweet pierogies are often filled with a prune mixture.

[POTAO AND CHEESE MIXTURE]
	Potato, Cheese & Onion Filling: Peel and boil 5 large potatoes until soft. Red potatoes are especially good for this. While the potatoes are boiling, finely chop 1 large onion and saute in butter until soft and translucent. Mash the potatoes with the sauted onions and 4-8oz of grated cheddar cheese (depending on how cheesy you want your pierogies), adding salt and pepper to taste. You can also add some fresh parsley, bacon bits, chives, or other enhancements if you desire. Let the potato mixture cool and then form into 1" balls.

[MUSHROOM MIX]
	In a large skillet, saute mushrooms and onions in butter until tender. Remove from heat and cool. Add breadcrumbs, salt and pepper, mixing well. Use immediately.

[MEAT MIX]
	Grind meat and onion in a grinder or food processor. Transfer to a medium bowl and add egg, broth and seasoning to taste.
	Drop by tablespoonsful onto pierogi dough of choice or onto nalesniki.

Notes: If you are having a hard time getting the edges to stick together, you may have too much flour in the dough. Add a little water to help get a good seal.
