Title: Pumpkin Coconut Maple Custard
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: 
Yield: 6 Servings
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: pumpkin, coconut, maple, custard, breakfast
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/1067487.jpg
Ingredients:
[Tools]
	6 small ramekin or custard cups

[Topping]
	whipped cream (if you want, but not necesary)
	crystallized ginger and chopped pecans for topping

[Filling]
	1 cup light coconut milk
	1 cup puréed pumpkin, no sugar or spices added *
	1/4 cup maple syrup (I used organic, grade B)
	2 extra-large eggs
	1 teaspoon cinnamon
	1/4 teaspoon ginger
	1/8 teaspoon nutmeg
	1/2 teaspoon vanilla
	dash salt

Instructions:
	Either make your puréed pumpkin from scratch or use canned (no sugar, no seasoning). Cut and clean out the pumpkin seeds and messy pulp, leaving the meat. Put the pumpkin in a roasting pan (I use glass) skin side down, fill with about an inch of water and cover with foil. Place in a preheated 400 degree oven for about 40-50 minutes or until the meat of the pumpkin is tender when pierced with a fork. Remove from oven being very careful not to spill the hot water on yourself. Cool and purée in a blender.
	To make the custard, preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Place a kettle of water on the stove and heat it up for the water bath. Line a roasting pan (I use a 9 x 13 inch glass pan) with a folded kitchen towel to prevent the ramekins from clanking around on the glass pan while cooking.
	Heat the coconut milk over low heat in a small saucepan until barely steaming, but not boiling.
	Whisk the syrup, eggs and vanilla in a large bowl until smooth. Slowly blend in the warm coconut milk, a little at a time so the eggs don’t cook.
	In a separate bowl, whisk together the pumpkin purée, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt. Blend well.
	Add the pumpkin purée to the liquid mixture and whisk until blended.
	Spoon the mixture into 6 small ramekin cups (about 3/4 cup each). Skim the foam from the top and place ramekins in the prepared roasting pan. Pour the boiling water into the pan about halfway up the sides of the ramekins. Avoid splashing any water into the ramekins. Carefully place the pan in the oven and bake for 60 minutes until custard is just set, but still a touch jiggly in the center when shaken. Do not cover while baking.
	Transfer ramekins to a wire rack and let cool for about 45 minutes. Cover and refrigerate until fully chilled (at least an hour).
	To serve, top with a dollop of real whipped cream if desired. Sprinkle with crystallized ginger and chopped pecans. These steps are optional, but they sure do add to the custard. I love the crystallized ginger!

