Title: Pumpkin Pastina
Description: By all means, you don’t have to serve it in a pumpkin, but the presentation is great, and very festive for this time of year. And besides, you have to roast your butternut squash, so why not do it all on the same baking sheet! 
Source: 
Original URL: http://www.prouditaliancook.com/2008/10/pumpkin-pastina.html
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: pumpkin, pasta
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/d3ccb64ad93f48e793aae098e9987756.jpg
Ingredients:
[optional]
	1 cup cooked, carmelized veggies (onion, carrot, fennel, parsnip, leafs)
	Herb or herb mixture (thyme, marjoram, oregano, rosemary, etc)

	1 Small Pumpkin per person
	1 cup roasted butternut squash (usually 1 half a small squash or less)
	salt and pepper
	4 cups of stock (chicken or veg, chicken was fabu!)
	3/4 lb of dry pastina or similar pasta
	1/2 cup grated parmesan

Instructions:
	Preheat the Oven to 375
	Halve the butternut squash and place, fleshy side up, on a pan filled with water 1/3 of the way up the squash. (roast the squash whichever way you normally prefer)
	Cut the top off the pumpkin and remove the seeds from the body and the cap. KEEP THE CAP!
	Place the Pumpkin(s) in a pan filled 1/3 of the way up with water.
	Put everything in the oven.
	Check the pumpkin about 30 minutes in. You want your pumpkin still firm enough to stand, so depending on what size you use, you might want to check it.
	Keep the squash in until it is fully roasted and all the flesh is soft.
	After roasting is done, cook the pasta in the stock.
	When al dente, drain out most of the liquid into a liquid container. Fold in the butternut squash and add the parmesan, other veg and herb(s).
	Slowly add enough stock so that it looks a little more liquid-y than a risotto (will evaporate more liquid and solidify when it cools.
	Put the pasta back into the pumpkin, top off, and bake it for another 15 minutes.
	Remove, plate and serve with a light garnish of parsley.

[optional]
	For the carmelized veggies, put everything not leafy in the pan over med-high heat with oil. 2-4 cups of veggies can easily cook down to 1 cup.
	add salt and pepper (1/2 tsp each)
	add sugar (1/4 tsp)
	stir and let lightly brown
	add in leafies and add salt and pepper

