Title: Roasted Cranberry Winter Salad
Description: 
Source: 
Original URL: http://smileswithsalt.com/2012/01/06/roasted-cranberry-winter-salad/
Yield: 4 Side Salads
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: cranberry, salad, side
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/feb12f79ba5d4d218d0c9f8b25085b2e.jpg
Ingredients:
[Dressing]
	3 tbsp olive oil
	1 tbsp balsamic or red wine vinegar
	juice from oranges
	salt and pepper

[Salad]
	lettuce of choice (I used one head of romaine with a handful of spinach)
	1 to 12 oz package of fresh cranberries
	2 tsp olive oil
	2 oranges cut into supremes (see how-to at the end of this post)
	4 oz goat cheese
	1/2 tbsp honey

Instructions:
	Preheat oven to 300 degrees
	Wash and dry lettuce. Tear lettuce into bite size pieces if necessary
	Toss cranberries in 2 tsp oil and lay on greased baking sheet or parchment paper lined baking sheet
	Roast in oven for 30 minutes
	While cranberries are roasting cut oranges into supremes (how-to at the bottom of this post). Cut oranges over a bowl to save the juices. If you don’t want to spend the time cutting supremes you can use slices or rounds
	Mix goat cheese and honey, set aside
	Make the vinaigrette by mixing oil, vinegar and orange juice from oranges you have cut. Season with salt and pepper to taste
	Once the cranberries are done and have cooled, assemble the ingredients for the salad. Serve dressing on the side or toss with salad right before serving. If tossing the salad with dressing do not add all the dressing at once. Depending on how much orange juice your oranges produce you may not need to use all the dressing. Enjoy!

[Supreming]
	Be sure you are using a sharp knife.
	Cut off the top and bottom of fruit so it can sit on a flat bottom
	Moving from top to bottom, cutting down, take off peel
	After the peel is removed hold orange over a bowl and start to cut in between each membrane. Once you have cut on each side of the supreme it should fall right out.
	Continue slicing out supremes until there is only membrane left. You can also squeeze the membrane over the bowl to get extra juice if desired

