Title: Tacos with Pork in Green Sauce (Tacos De Cerdo En Salsa Verde)
Description: 
Source: Fine Cooking
Original URL: http://www.finecooking.com/recipes/pork-green-sauce-tacos.aspx
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/03b17d3bd5eb4f43b29ba5612248f6b2.jpg
Ingredients:
[For the pork in green sauce]
	1 to 1/2 lb. tomatillos (15 to 18), husked and rinsed
	2 serrano or jalapeño chiles, stemmed
	1 tsp. cumin seeds
	3 allspice berries
	1 whole clove
	3 medium garlic cloves, peeled
	1/2 cup coarsely chopped cilantro
	1 to 1/2 tsp. salt, divided
	3 lb. pork shoulder, cut into 1-inch pieces
	2 Tbs. vegetable oil

[For the tacos]
	15 to 20 6-inch corn tortillas, warmed
	chopped white onion, for garnish
	chopped fresh cilantro, for garnish
	Mexican crema or sour cream, for garnish

Instructions:
	In a 3-quart saucepan, cover the tomatillos and chiles with cold water and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer the vegetables uncovered, turning occasionally, until the tomatillos are tender and khaki-green all over but still intact, about 15 minutes.
	Heat the cumin, allspice berries, and clove in a small, dry skillet over medium heat, shaking the pan or stirring the spices until they are fragrant and the cumin seeds are a few shades darker, about 1 minute.
	Put the spices in a blender along with 1 cup of the tomatillo cooking water and blend until the spices are ground. Using a slotted spoon, gently lift the tomatillos and chiles out of the remaining cooking water and put them in the blender along with the garlic, cilantro, and 1/2 tsp. salt. Blend until smooth.
	Pat the pork dry and season with the remaining 1 tsp. salt.
	Heat the oil in a wide, heavy 4- to 5-quart pot over medium-high heat and brown the pork in batches without crowding, turning occasionally, about 8 minutes per batch.
	Return all the meat to the pan and add the tomatillo sauce. Bring to a simmer, stirring to coat the meat, then reduce the heat. Simmer the pork, covered, stirring occasionally, until the meat is tender and the sauce is thickened, 1-1/2 to 2 hours. If necessary, continue to cook uncovered to thicken the sauce. Shred the meat with two forks.
	Make the tacos with the tortillas, onion, cilantro, and crema.

	

