Title: Thai Barley Stir Fry
Description: Barley replaces the usual rice in this stir-fry filled with spicy, fresh Thai flavors and plenty of chicken and vegetables. Sub Tofu for Chicken.
Source: 
Original URL: http://wholegrainscouncil.org/recipes/main-dishes/thai-barley-stir-fry
Yield: 4 Servings
Active: 
Total: 
Categories: asian
Image: https://cdn2.pepperplate.com/recipes/8c0fc408698e45a0839c842e0fcb17cf.jpg
Ingredients:
	1/2 cup whole grain barley kernels (hulled or hull-less barley)
	1 cup water
	2 tablespoons peanut or vegetable oil, divided
	2 boneless skinless chicken breast halves, cut into bite-size pieces
	2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
	1 cup thinly sliced Chinese or regular eggplant
	1/2 cup chopped red bell pepper
	1/2 cup chopped onion
	3 tablespoons chopped fresh basil leaves
	1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint leaves
	8 to 10 drops red pepper sauce (or some red pepper flakes)
	1 teaspoon granulated sugar
	1 tablespoon oyster sauce
	1 teaspoon soy sauce
	3 tablespoons chopped peanuts
	Shredded red cabbage and carrot curls, for garnish

Instructions:
	Place barley and water in medium saucepan; bring to boil. Reduce heat to low, cover and cook 50-55 minutes or until barley is tender and most of liquid is absorbed. (NOTE: Whole grain barley tends to absorb less moisture than pearl barley and it may be necessary to pour off any unabsorbed liquid after cooking.) Set aside.
	In large skillet or wok, heat 1 tablespoon oil over high heat. Add chicken pieces and garlic; stir-fry 3 to 4 minutes.
	Add cooked barley; stir-fry an additional 3 minutes. Remove barley-chicken mixture from pan; keep warm.
	Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in skillet. Add eggplant, bell pepper and onion; stir-fry 3 minutes. Add basil, mint, red pepper sauce, sugar, oyster sauce and soy sauce; cook 2 more minutes.
	Return barley-chicken mixture to skillet; stir-fry 3 minutes.
	Sprinkle with peanuts and garnish with shredded red cabbage and carrot curls for an authentic Thai finishing touch.

Notes: Recipe courtesy of National Barley Foods Council.

Nutrition Facts: Calories - 296, Protein - 22g, Carbohydrates - 28g, Fiber - 7g, Fat - 11g, Cholesterol - 41mg, Sodium - 186mg.
