Title: Weiner Schnitzel
Description: The two cups of oil called for in this recipe may seem like a lot—but they’re necessary to achieve a wrinkled texture on the finished cutlets. When properly cooked, the cutlets absorb very little oil. To ensure ample cooking space, a large Dutch oven is essential. In lieu of an instant-read thermometer to gauge the oil’s temperature, place a fresh (not dry) bread cube in the oil and start heating; when the bread is deep golden brown, the oil is ready.
Source: cooksillustrated.com
Original URL: 
Yield: 4
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
	7 large high-quality sandwich bread , crusts removed, cut into 3/4-inch cubes (about 4 cups)
	1/2 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
	2 large eggs
	2 cups plus 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
	1 pork tenderloin (1 1/4 pounds). trimmed of fat and silver skin and cut on angle into 4 equal pieces (see illustration below)

[Garnishes]
	1 lemon , cut into wedges
	2 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley leaves
	2 tablespoons capers , rinsed
	1 large hard-cooked egg , yolk and white separated and passed separately through fine-mesh strainer (optional)

Instructions:
	Place bread cubes on large microwave-safe plate. Microwave on high power for 4 minutes, stirring well halfway through cooking time. Microwave on medium power until bread is dry and few pieces start to lightly brown, 3 to 5 minutes longer, stirring every minute. Process dry bread in food processor to very fine crumbs, about 45 seconds. Transfer bread crumbs to shallow dish (you should have about 11/4 cups crumbs). Spread flour in second shallow dish. Beat eggs with 1 tablespoon oil in third shallow dish.
	Place pork, with 1 cut-side down, between 2 sheets of parchment paper or plastic wrap and pound to even thickness between 1/8 and 1/4 inch. Season cutlets with salt and pepper. Working with 1 cutlet at a time, dredge cutlets thoroughly in flour, shaking off excess, then coat with egg mixture, allowing excess to drip back into dish to ensure very thin coating, and coat evenly with bread crumbs, pressing on crumbs to adhere. Place breaded cutlets in single layer on wire rack set over baking sheet; let coating dry 5 minutes.
	Heat remaining 2 cups oil in large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until it registers 375 degrees on instant-read thermometer. Lay 2 cutlets, without overlapping, in pan and cook, shaking pan continuously and gently, until cutlets are wrinkled and light golden brown on both sides, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer cutlets to paper towel-lined plate and flip cutlets several times to blot excess oil. Repeat with remaining cutlets. Serve immediately with garnishes.

[Obtaining Puff]
	MICROWAVING dries bread cubes quickly without adding toasted flavor.
	PROCESSING dried bread in food processor creates ultra-fine crumbs.
	ADDING oil to eggs keeps coating from fusing with meat.
	FRYING in 2 cups of oil allows egg to set quickly and trap steam, creating puff.
	SHAKING the pan bathes each cutlet in hot oil, helping egg to set faster, enhancing puff.

[Cutting Pork]
	Cutting pork tenderloin on an angle yields pounded cutlets that fit easily in the pan. Cut the tenderloin in half at about a 20-degree angle. Using the same angle, cut each half in half again, cutting the tapered tail pieces slightly thicker than the middle medallions.

